---
layout: post
title: Healing the Political Divide
---
Lately I've been a lot about the increasing polarization of US politics and the role that technology has played in its development. Many point to social media as the key factor in creating political "echo chambers." As sites like Facebook have become very efficient and filtering and catering content to a user's preferences, they have created pockets where the content that people are exposed to tends to mimic the opinions they already have. [Blue Feed, Red Feed](http://graphics.wsj.com/blue-feed-red-feed/#/president-trump), a tool published by the Wall Street Journal, does a very good job of illustrating this phenomenon. I fear that before long we will reach an irreversible point of partisanship and line-in-the-sand drawing that will ruin any possibilities of cooperation and genuine progress.

Ostensibly, technology is supposed to make our lives better, not worse, so some have made efforts to reverse this trend. As Facebook and Twitter have become more aware of the role they play in politics, we're seeing the beginnings of responsibility and consciousness in operating policy, largely in efforts to stem "fake news" pollution. I find myself thinking about ways to approach the problem from a different angle.

If there's to be any hope of healing the political divide, people are going to have to start speaking openly and and sensitively with those they disagree with. Ultimately it's going to require an active effort to break through comfort zones and approach unfamiliar territory without hostility. I would expect that such dedicated negotiators would represent a small portion of their respective communities, but perhaps they could act as diplomats of sorts, exchanging ideas and bringing lessons learned back home to share with their base. The question then becomes; What kind of tools can we make to encourage this aisle-crossing and to ease its process?

Thus begins my little experiment. I don't expect a truly feasible solution to be forthcoming, but I believe that it's a problem worth engaging with as well as a useful exercise for my own development. In my next post I plan to outline and analyze a few approaches to designing web apps to bring people together.